---
layout: single
title: 'IST736 WK 6 -- Async'
---

# WK 6 scikit-learn

## 6.1 Readings
NONE

## 6.2 Data Preparation

VIDEO:
13 m

NOTES:
* Big X is training CONTENT
* Little y is training LABEL 

RESPONSE:
In the sample script block Exercise A, follow the instructions to write code and test it. Post your code here.

## 6.3 Vectorization

VIDEO: 
11 min

NOTES:
* TFIDF
* CountVectorizer
-- encoding can be latin-1 or utf-8 or anything, depends on dataset


QUESTION: 
Follow the instruction in the sample script block Exercise B. Write and test code for boolean vectorization. Post your code here.

RESPONSE:
# This kept giving me this error
# NotFittedError: CountVectorizer - Vocabulary wasn't fitted.

# test_bool = unigram_bool_vectorizer.transform(X_test)
# train_bool = unigram_bool_vectorizer.transform(X_train)

# So I did this
import sklearn
vocabulary_to_load = X_test
loaded_vectorizer = sklearn.feature_extraction.text.CountVectorizer(ngram_range=(1,
                                        2), binary = True, min_df=1, vocabulary=vocabulary_to_load)
loaded_vectorizer._validate_vocabulary()
print('loaded_vectorizer.get_feature_names(): {0}'.
  format(loaded_vectorizer.get_feature_names()))

## 6.4 Training and Explaining MultinomialNB Model

VIDEO:
7 min

RESPONSE:
Follow the instruction in the sample script block Exercise C. Write and test code. Post your code here.

## 6.5 Use Model for Prediction and Explain Prediction Result

VIDEO:
10 min

QUESTION:
Follow instructions in the sample script block Exercise D. Write and test code. Post your code and your error analysis comments here.

RESPONSE:
```python
err_cnt = 0
for i in range(0, len(y_test)):
    if(y_test[i]==1 and y_pred[i]==4):
        print(X_test[i])
        err_cnt = err_cnt+1
print("errors:", err_cnt)

Negation seems to be a good next step for this one, too.
```

## 6.6 Kaggle Submission

VIDEO:
5 min

RESPONSE:
Follow the instruction in the sample script block Exercise E. Report your result here.

## 6.7 Compare BernoulliNB and MultinomialNB With Cross Validation

VIDEO: 
5 min

RESPONSE: 
Follow the instructions in the sample script block Exercise F. Post your code and result here.
