---
layout: single
title: 'MSDS: IST 718'
permalink: /ist718/
tags: MSDS MSDS_CLASS
---

## Description: 

A broad introduction to analytical processing tools and techniques for information professionals. Students will develop a portfolio of resources, demonstrations, recipes, and examples of various analytical techniques.

## Learning Objectives:

### During the course, we will emphasize:
1. Experiential learning through reading and practical exercises.
2. Collaborative learning through online discussions between instructors and peers.
3. Self-learning with appropriate instructional support and timely feedback using analytical case studies.

### In order to be successful in this course, the student will:
1. Pro-actively research solution options vs. relying solely on textbook content.
2. Actively code while completing the reading assignments.
3. Present results in a professional manner. Comments – Clarity – Correctness – Credit.
4. Submit their assignments on time.

### After taking this course, the students will be able to:
1. Obtain data and explain data structures and data elements.
2. Scrub data by applying scripting methods, to include debugging, for data manipulation in Python, R or other languages.
3. Explore data by analyzing using qualitative techniques including descriptive statistics, summarization, and visualizations.
4. Model relationships between data using the appropriate analytical methodologies matched to the information and the needs of clients and users.
5. INterpret the data, model, analysis, and findings. Communicate the results in a meaningful way.
6. Select an applicable analytical methodology for real problems in areas such as business, science, and engineering.