---
layout: single
title: 'How to use Data Science Superpowers for Useless Things: Getting a Job at Amazon, Take 2'
tags: aws job
---

IMPETUS: I'd like a job as a data scientist at Amazon.

PROBLEM: There are 3062 jobs listing "data scientist" somewhere in the title or description (at least this is the number of postings that comes back when I search "data science")

SOLUTION: Open every single one and compare the requirements and job description to my resume and desires

PROBLEM: Assuming this takes me one minute per posting (which is generous -- during trials it took me two minutes on average), this would take me 3062 minutes, or 51 hours or just over two days of uninterrupted job-post-reading.

[Ain't nobody got time for that gif]

SOLUTION: Use our friend Beautiful Soup to scrape the webpage!

PROBLEM: They are using React and Beautiful Soup is trying to scrape before the whole document has been rendered! Que lastima!

SOLUTION: Do a complicated set of awaits. JUST KIDDING. Go straight to the source and find the XHR request that is generating all this data in the first place.

[SHOW CODE HERE]

PROBLEM: We now have a spreadsheet of 3062 job postings. How can we start to narrow this down?!

SOLUTION: Remove jobs outside of the US.

PROBLEM: We still have 2543 jobs to "look at."

SOLUTION: Let's help ourselves out by narrowing the search down by searching through ONLY the jobs that have the words "data scientist" in the title.

--HOORAY!! This brought us down to 556!! HOWEVER...

PROBLEM: A lot of positions are "senior"

SOLUTION: Remove any positions that include "senior" or "sr." !

--HOORAY!! This brought us down from 642 to 350!!

PROBLEM: A lot of these positions have the word "manager" or "principal"

SOLUTION: Remove any positions that include "principal" or "manager"

--HOORAY!! This brought us down from 350 to 226!!

Now, lets see how many of those 226 are unique!!

ONLY 107!!
